evaluate-prompt-for-adoption/skill.md, before:

---
name: evaluate-prompt-for-adoption
description: Fetch and evaluate external prompts for potential adoption into OLAF
license: Apache-2.0
metadata:
  olaf_tags: [evaluation, adoption, quality-assessment, prompt-curation, external-sources]
  copyright: Copyright (c) 2026 pjmp020564
  author: pjmp020564 (on github)
  repository: https://github.com/haal-ai/haal-ide
  provider: Haal AI
---

<olaf>

if you are in need to get the date and  time, use time tools, fallback to shell command if needed

**MANDATORY**: before doing anything else, read fully the `.olaf/team-delegation.md` file and apply its requirements strictly.

## Input Parameters
You MUST request these parameters if not provided by the user:
- **source_url**: string - URL to the prompt (GitHub, gist, registry, webpage) (REQUIRED if source_text not provided)
- **source_text**: string - Direct paste of prompt content (REQUIRED if source_url not provided)
- **source_description**: string - Brief description of what the prompt does (OPTIONAL - will analyze if not provided)

## User Interaction Protocol
You MUST follow the established interaction protocol strictly:
- You WILL use Act protocol for this evaluation skill
- Provide thorough analysis with clear recommendation

## Process

### 1. Acquisition Phase
You WILL fetch the prompt content:

**If source_url provided:**
- Use `fetch_webpage` tool to retrieve content from URL
- Extract prompt content from page (may be markdown, code block, raw text)
- If GitHub raw file, get direct content
- If GitHub page, extract from markdown rendering
- If gist, extract from embedded content
- If awesome list, get referenced prompt file

**If source_text provided:**
- Use provided text directly
- Validate it contains actual prompt content

**Parse Prompt Structure:**
- Identify frontmatter (if present)
- Extract description, tags, parameters
- Identify main instructions
- Find example sections
- Detect dependencies (templates, tools, data)

### 2. Similarity Check Phase
You WILL check against existing OLAF skills:

**Search Existing Skills:**
- Use `semantic_search` to find similar skills in workspace
- Search for keywords from prompt description
- Look for similar objectives/use cases
- Check prompt-engineer competency for overlap

**Similarity Assessment:**
```
For each similar skill found:
- Calculate conceptual overlap (0-100%)
- Identify unique features in external prompt
- Identify features already in OLAF
- Determine if external prompt adds value
```

**Similarity Verdict:**
- **HIGH (>80%)**: Already have this, skip unless significantly better
- **MEDIUM (40-80%)**: Partial overlap, extract unique parts
- **LOW (<40%)**: New capability, evaluate for adoption

### 3. Quality Evaluation Phase
You WILL assess prompt quality across dimensions:

#### 3.1 Clarity Assessment
**Evaluate:**
- ✅ Clear objective stated?
- ✅ Well-structured sections?
- ✅ Unambiguous instructions?
- ✅ Examples provided?
- ✅ Expected outputs defined?

**Rating**: Clear / Somewhat Clear / Unclear

#### 3.2 Genericity Assessment
**Evaluate:**
- ✅ Applicable to multiple use cases?
- ✅ Not too narrow/specific to one domain?
- ✅ Reusable across projects/teams?
- ✅ Domain-agnostic or valuable niche?

**Rating**: Generic / Domain-Specific / Too Narrow

#### 3.3 Parameterizability Assessment
**Evaluate:**
- ✅ Can be parameterized (inputs/outputs)?
- ✅ Supports configuration/options?
- ✅ Flexible for different contexts?
- ✅ Clear parameter structure?

**Current Parameters Detected**: [List found parameters]
**Potential Parameters**: [List parameters that could be added]

**Rating**: Highly Parameterizable / Moderately / Hardcoded

#### 3.4 LLM Independence Assessment
**Evaluate:**
- ✅ Works across different LLMs (Claude, GPT, Gemini)?
- ✅ Not tied to specific agent framework?
- ✅ No vendor-specific syntax?
- ✅ Uses standard prompt patterns?
- ⚠️ GitHub Copilot-specific features (.prompt.md)?
- ⚠️ Claude Artifacts-specific?
- ⚠️ ChatGPT plugin-specific?

**Rating**: LLM-Agnostic / Platform-Preferred / Platform-Locked

#### 3.5 Structure Quality Assessment
**Evaluate:**
- ✅ Logical flow/sequence?
- ✅ Proper sections (input, process, output)?
- ✅ Error handling included?
- ✅ Validation steps defined?
- ✅ Clear success criteria?

**Rating**: Well-Structured / Acceptable / Needs Restructuring

### 4. Persona & Use Case Analysis
You WILL identify target users:

**Who Would Use This?**
- Developer personas: [junior, senior, architect, lead]
- Domain experts: [data scientist, designer, analyst]
- Roles: [individual contributor, team lead, manager]
- Expertise level: [beginner, intermediate, advanced]

**Use Case Scenarios:**
- Primary use case: [main scenario]
- Secondary use cases: [additional scenarios]
- Frequency: [daily, weekly, monthly, rare]
- Context: [solo work, team collaboration, project phase]

### 5. Value-Add Estimation
You WILL assess the prompt's value:

#### 5.1 Frequency vs Specificity Matrix
```
         │ High Frequency        │ Low Frequency
─────────┼──────────────────────┼─────────────────
Generic  │ HIGH VALUE ⭐⭐⭐     │ MEDIUM VALUE ⭐⭐
         │ (everyday tool)      │ (useful helper)
─────────┼──────────────────────┼─────────────────
Specific │ MEDIUM VALUE ⭐⭐     │ LOW VALUE ⭐
         │ (niche but frequent) │ (very situational)
```

**Assessment:**
- Frequency: [daily/weekly/monthly/rare]
- Specificity: [generic/domain-specific/very-narrow]
- **VALUE RATING**: [⭐⭐⭐ / ⭐⭐ / ⭐]

#### 5.2 AI Necessity Assessment
**Does this NEED AI?**
- ✅ Requires reasoning/creativity/judgment
- ⚠️ Could be partially automated with scripts
- ❌ Could be fully replaced by script/tool/automation

**Examples:**
- "Generate creative blog post" → ✅ Needs AI
- "Format JSON output" → ⚠️ AI helps but script could work
- "Calculate sum of numbers" → ❌ Script is better

**AI Necessity**: Required / Beneficial / Optional

#### 5.3 Value-Add Score
Combine factors:
```
Value Score = (Frequency × 3) + (Genericity × 2) + (AI_Necessity × 3) + (Quality × 2)

Where:
- Frequency: 1-5 (rare to daily)
- Genericity: 1-5 (very narrow to generic)
- AI_Necessity: 1-5 (scriptable to AI-required)
- Quality: 1-5 (poor to excellent)

Total: 0-50 points
```

**Value Tiers:**
- 40-50: **EXCELLENT** - Adopt immediately
- 30-39: **GOOD** - Strong candidate
- 20-29: **MODERATE** - Consider with improvements
- 10-19: **LOW** - Skip or extract specific parts
- 0-9: **POOR** - Not worth adopting

### 6. Adoption Recommendation Phase
You WILL provide final recommendation:

## Evaluation Report

### Source Information
- **URL/Source**: [source_url or "Provided Text"]
- **Description**: [extracted or provided description]
- **Author**: [if detectable]
- **License**: [if detectable]

### Similarity Analysis
- **Similar OLAF Skills**: [list with overlap %]
- **Unique Features**: [what this adds that OLAF doesn't have]
- **Similarity Verdict**: [HIGH/MEDIUM/LOW - recommendation]

### Quality Assessment
| Dimension | Rating | Notes |
|-----------|--------|-------|
| Clarity | [Clear/Somewhat/Unclear] | [brief comment] |
| Genericity | [Generic/Domain/Narrow] | [brief comment] |
| Parameterizability | [High/Moderate/Hardcoded] | [brief comment] |
| LLM Independence | [Agnostic/Preferred/Locked] | [brief comment] |
| Structure | [Well/Acceptable/Needs Work] | [brief comment] |

### Persona & Use Cases
- **Target Personas**: [list]
- **Primary Use Case**: [description]
- **Frequency**: [daily/weekly/monthly/rare]

### Value-Add Analysis
- **Frequency × Specificity**: [HIGH/MEDIUM/LOW VALUE]
- **AI Necessity**: [Required/Beneficial/Optional]
- **Value Score**: [X/50 points] - [EXCELLENT/GOOD/MODERATE/LOW/POOR]

### Final Recommendation

**🎯 RECOMMENDATION**: [ADOPT / ADOPT WITH MODIFICATIONS / EXTRACT PARTS / SKIP]

**Rationale**:
[2-3 sentences explaining why]

**If ADOPT:**
- Suggested skill name: [kebab-case-name]
- Suggested competency: [competency-name]
- Priority: [high/medium/low]

**If ADOPT WITH MODIFICATIONS:**
- Modifications needed:
  1. [modification 1]
  2. [modification 2]
- Estimated effort: [low/medium/high]

**If EXTRACT PARTS:**
- Parts worth extracting:
  1. [specific technique/pattern]
  2. [specific section]
- Integration approach: [where to add in OLAF]

**If SKIP:**
- Reason: [why not valuable]
- Alternative: [existing OLAF skill that covers this]

### Next Steps
**If adopting:**
1. Use `import-prompt-unchanged` to import as-is, OR
2. Use `convert-prompt` to modernize to OLAF standards, OR
3. Use `create-skill` to build OLAF-native version

**If extracting:**
1. Identify target OLAF skill to enhance
2. Extract specific patterns/techniques
3. Integrate into existing skill

## Output Format
You WILL generate outputs following this structure:

**Evaluation Report** (as defined above)

**Interactive Follow-up:**
After presenting report, ask user:
- "Would you like me to proceed with [RECOMMENDATION]?"
- If ADOPT: "Should I import it now using import-prompt-unchanged or convert-prompt?"
- If EXTRACT: "Which OLAF skill should I enhance with the extracted parts?"

## Domain-Specific Rules
You MUST follow these constraints:

**Fetch Rules:**
- ALWAYS check if URL is accessible before analysis
- HANDLE different source formats (GitHub, gists, raw files, web pages)
- EXTRACT actual prompt content, not surrounding page chrome

**Similarity Rules:**
- NEVER recommend adopting near-duplicate (>80% overlap)
- ALWAYS highlight unique features even in similar prompts
- CONSIDER merging similar prompts rather than having both

**Quality Rules:**
- BE HONEST about quality issues
- DON'T let popularity/stars override quality assessment
- CONSIDER if prompt is well-suited for OLAF or needs adaptation

**Value Rules:**
- PRIORITIZE high-frequency generic prompts
- DON'T dismiss niche prompts if exceptionally well-crafted
- CONSIDER team/project context in frequency estimation

**Recommendation Rules:**
- PROVIDE SPECIFIC next steps, not vague suggestions
- ESTIMATE effort required for modifications
- SUGGEST specific OLAF skills to enhance if extracting

⚠️ **Critical Requirements**
- MANDATORY: Fetch actual prompt content before evaluating
- MANDATORY: Check similarity to existing OLAF skills
- NEVER recommend adopting duplicates without strong justification
- ALWAYS provide VALUE SCORE and clear rationale
- ALWAYS suggest concrete next steps

Commit message:

chore: update evaluation recommendations and enhance user interaction for evaluate-prompt-for-adoption skill

evaluate-prompt-for-adoption/skill.md, after:

---
name: evaluate-prompt-for-adoption
description: Fetch and evaluate external prompts for potential adoption into OLAF
license: Apache-2.0
metadata:
  olaf_tags: [evaluation, adoption, quality-assessment, prompt-curation, external-sources]
  copyright: Copyright (c) 2026 pjmp020564
  author: pjmp020564 (on github)
  repository: https://github.com/haal-ai/haal-ide
  provider: Haal AI
---

<olaf>

if you are in need to get the date and  time, use time tools, fallback to shell command if needed

**MANDATORY**: before doing anything else, read fully the `.olaf/team-delegation.md` file and apply its requirements strictly.

## Input Parameters
You MUST request these parameters if not provided by the user:
- **source_url**: string - URL to the prompt (GitHub, gist, registry, webpage) (REQUIRED if source_text not provided)
- **source_text**: string - Direct paste of prompt content (REQUIRED if source_url not provided)
- **source_description**: string - Brief description of what the prompt does (OPTIONAL - will analyze if not provided)
- **available_skills_list**: string - List of skills the user currently has available/installed (OPTIONAL - improves duplicate detection)

## User Interaction Protocol
You MUST follow the established interaction protocol strictly:
- You WILL use Act protocol for this evaluation skill
- Provide thorough analysis with clear recommendation

## Process

### 1. Acquisition Phase
You WILL fetch the prompt content:

**If source_url provided:**
- Use `fetch_webpage` tool to retrieve content from URL
- Extract prompt content from page (may be markdown, code block, raw text)
- If GitHub raw file, get direct content
- If GitHub page, extract from markdown rendering
- If gist, extract from embedded content
- If awesome list, get referenced prompt file

**If source_text provided:**
- Use provided text directly
- Validate it contains actual prompt content

**Parse Prompt Structure:**
- Identify frontmatter (if present)
- Extract description, tags, parameters
- Identify main instructions
- Find example sections
- Detect dependencies (templates, tools, data)

### 2. Similarity Check Phase
You WILL check against existing OLAF skills:

**Search Existing Skills:**
- Use `semantic_search` to find similar skills in workspace
- Search for keywords from prompt description
- Look for similar objectives/use cases
- Check prompt-engineer competency for overlap

**Optional: Check User-Visible Skills**
- If **available_skills_list** is provided, compare the external prompt against that list to detect duplicates the user may already have, even if they are not present in the current workspace.
- If **available_skills_list** is not provided, you SHOULD ask the user to paste the output of "what skills do you have?" (or provide their skills list) before finalizing an ADOPT recommendation.
- If the user cannot provide it, proceed with a workspace-only similarity check and clearly label the limitation in the report.

**Similarity Assessment:**
```
For each similar skill found:
- Calculate conceptual overlap (0-100%)
- Identify unique features in external prompt
- Identify features already in OLAF
- Determine if external prompt adds value

If available_skills_list is provided:
- Identify potential duplicates in the user's available skills
- Estimate overlap qualitatively (HIGH/MEDIUM/LOW)
```

**Similarity Verdict:**
- **HIGH (>80%)**: Already have this, skip unless significantly better
- **MEDIUM (40-80%)**: Partial overlap, extract unique parts
- **LOW (<40%)**: New capability, evaluate for adoption

### 3. Quality Evaluation Phase
You WILL assess prompt quality across dimensions:

#### 3.1 Clarity Assessment
**Evaluate:**
- ✅ Clear objective stated?
- ✅ Well-structured sections?
- ✅ Unambiguous instructions?
- ✅ Examples provided?
- ✅ Expected outputs defined?

**Rating**: Clear / Somewhat Clear / Unclear

#### 3.2 Genericity Assessment
**Evaluate:**
- ✅ Applicable to multiple use cases?
- ✅ Not too narrow/specific to one domain?
- ✅ Reusable across projects/teams?
- ✅ Domain-agnostic or valuable niche?

**Rating**: Generic / Domain-Specific / Too Narrow

#### 3.3 Parameterizability Assessment
**Evaluate:**
- ✅ Can be parameterized (inputs/outputs)?
- ✅ Supports configuration/options?
- ✅ Flexible for different contexts?
- ✅ Clear parameter structure?

**Current Parameters Detected**: [List found parameters]
**Potential Parameters**: [List parameters that could be added]

**Rating**: Highly Parameterizable / Moderately / Hardcoded

#### 3.4 LLM Independence Assessment
**Evaluate:**
- ✅ Works across different LLMs (Claude, GPT, Gemini)?
- ✅ Not tied to specific agent framework?
- ✅ No vendor-specific syntax?
- ✅ Uses standard prompt patterns?
- ⚠️ GitHub Copilot-specific features (.prompt.md)?
- ⚠️ Claude Artifacts-specific?
- ⚠️ ChatGPT plugin-specific?

**Rating**: LLM-Agnostic / Platform-Preferred / Platform-Locked

#### 3.5 Structure Quality Assessment
**Evaluate:**
- ✅ Logical flow/sequence?
- ✅ Proper sections (input, process, output)?
- ✅ Error handling included?
- ✅ Validation steps defined?
- ✅ Clear success criteria?

**Rating**: Well-Structured / Acceptable / Needs Restructuring

### 4. Persona & Use Case Analysis
You WILL identify target users:

**Who Would Use This?**
- Developer personas: [junior, senior, architect, lead]
- Domain experts: [data scientist, designer, analyst]
- Roles: [individual contributor, team lead, manager]
- Expertise level: [beginner, intermediate, advanced]

**Use Case Scenarios:**
- Primary use case: [main scenario]
- Secondary use cases: [additional scenarios]
- Frequency: [daily, weekly, monthly, rare]
- Context: [solo work, team collaboration, project phase]

### 5. Value-Add Estimation
You WILL assess the prompt's value:

#### 5.1 Frequency vs Specificity Matrix
```
         │ High Frequency        │ Low Frequency
─────────┼──────────────────────┼─────────────────
Generic  │ HIGH VALUE ⭐⭐⭐     │ MEDIUM VALUE ⭐⭐
         │ (everyday tool)      │ (useful helper)
─────────┼──────────────────────┼─────────────────
Specific │ MEDIUM VALUE ⭐⭐     │ LOW VALUE ⭐
         │ (niche but frequent) │ (very situational)
```

**Assessment:**
- Frequency: [daily/weekly/monthly/rare]
- Specificity: [generic/domain-specific/very-narrow]
- **VALUE RATING**: [⭐⭐⭐ / ⭐⭐ / ⭐]

#### 5.2 AI Necessity Assessment
**Does this NEED AI?**
- ✅ Requires reasoning/creativity/judgment
- ⚠️ Could be partially automated with scripts
- ❌ Could be fully replaced by script/tool/automation

**Examples:**
- "Generate creative blog post" → ✅ Needs AI
- "Format JSON output" → ⚠️ AI helps but script could work
- "Calculate sum of numbers" → ❌ Script is better

**AI Necessity**: Required / Beneficial / Optional

#### 5.3 Value-Add Score
Combine factors:
```
Value Score = (Frequency × 3) + (Genericity × 2) + (AI_Necessity × 3) + (Quality × 2)

Where:
- Frequency: 1-5 (rare to daily)
- Genericity: 1-5 (very narrow to generic)
- AI_Necessity: 1-5 (scriptable to AI-required)
- Quality: 1-5 (poor to excellent)

Total: 0-50 points
```

**Value Tiers:**
- 40-50: **EXCELLENT** - Adopt immediately
- 30-39: **GOOD** - Strong candidate
- 20-29: **MODERATE** - Consider with improvements
- 10-19: **LOW** - Skip or extract specific parts
- 0-9: **POOR** - Not worth adopting

### 6. Adoption Recommendation Phase
You WILL provide final recommendation:

## Evaluation Report

### Source Information
- **URL/Source**: [source_url or "Provided Text"]
- **Description**: [extracted or provided description]
- **Author**: [if detectable]
- **License**: [if detectable]

### Similarity Analysis
- **Similarity Scope Used**: [workspace-only / workspace+available_skills_list]
- **Similar OLAF Skills (workspace)**: [list with overlap %]
- **Possible User Skill Duplicates**: [list from available_skills_list, or "Not provided"]
- **Unique Features**: [what this adds that OLAF doesn't have]
- **Similarity Verdict**: [HIGH/MEDIUM/LOW - recommendation]

### Quality Assessment
| Dimension | Rating | Notes |
|-----------|--------|-------|
| Clarity | [Clear/Somewhat/Unclear] | [brief comment] |
| Genericity | [Generic/Domain/Narrow] | [brief comment] |
| Parameterizability | [High/Moderate/Hardcoded] | [brief comment] |
| LLM Independence | [Agnostic/Preferred/Locked] | [brief comment] |
| Structure | [Well/Acceptable/Needs Work] | [brief comment] |

### Persona & Use Cases
- **Target Personas**: [list]
- **Primary Use Case**: [description]
- **Frequency**: [daily/weekly/monthly/rare]

### Value-Add Analysis
- **Frequency × Specificity**: [HIGH/MEDIUM/LOW VALUE]
- **AI Necessity**: [Required/Beneficial/Optional]
- **Value Score**: [X/50 points] - [EXCELLENT/GOOD/MODERATE/LOW/POOR]

### Final Recommendation

**🎯 RECOMMENDATION**: [ADOPT / ADOPT WITH MODIFICATIONS / EXTRACT PARTS / SKIP]

**Rationale**:
[2-3 sentences explaining why]

**If ADOPT:**
- Suggested skill name: [kebab-case-name]
- Suggested competency: [competency-name]
- Priority: [high/medium/low]

**If ADOPT WITH MODIFICATIONS:**
- Modifications needed:
  1. [modification 1]
  2. [modification 2]
- Estimated effort: [low/medium/high]

**If EXTRACT PARTS:**
- Parts worth extracting:
  1. [specific technique/pattern]
  2. [specific section]
- Integration approach: [where to add in OLAF]

**If SKIP:**
- Reason: [why not valuable]
- Alternative: [existing OLAF skill that covers this]

### Next Steps
**If adopting:**
1. Use `convert-prompt` to modernize to OLAF standards, OR
2. Use `create-skill` to build OLAF-native version

**If extracting:**
1. Identify target OLAF skill to enhance
2. Extract specific patterns/techniques
3. Integrate into existing skill

## Output Format
You WILL generate outputs following this structure:

**Evaluation Report** (as defined above)

**Interactive Follow-up:**
After presenting report, ask user:
- "Would you like me to proceed with [RECOMMENDATION]?"
- If **available_skills_list** was not provided: "To avoid adopting a duplicate, can you paste your available skills list (answer to 'what skills do you have?')?"
- If ADOPT: "Should I modernize it now using convert-prompt, or package an OLAF-native version with create-skill?"
- If EXTRACT: "Which OLAF skill should I enhance with the extracted parts?"

## Domain-Specific Rules
You MUST follow these constraints:

**Fetch Rules:**
- ALWAYS check if URL is accessible before analysis
- HANDLE different source formats (GitHub, gists, raw files, web pages)
- EXTRACT actual prompt content, not surrounding page chrome

**Similarity Rules:**
- NEVER recommend adopting near-duplicate (>80% overlap)
- ALWAYS highlight unique features even in similar prompts
- CONSIDER merging similar prompts rather than having both
- If **available_skills_list** is provided, treat near-duplicates from that list as duplicates for adoption decisions.
- If **available_skills_list** is not provided, explicitly label the similarity check as workspace-only.

**Quality Rules:**
- BE HONEST about quality issues
- DON'T let popularity/stars override quality assessment
- CONSIDER if prompt is well-suited for OLAF or needs adaptation

**Value Rules:**
- PRIORITIZE high-frequency generic prompts
- DON'T dismiss niche prompts if exceptionally well-crafted
- CONSIDER team/project context in frequency estimation

**Recommendation Rules:**
- PROVIDE SPECIFIC next steps, not vague suggestions
- ESTIMATE effort required for modifications
- SUGGEST specific OLAF skills to enhance if extracting

⚠️ **Critical Requirements**
- MANDATORY: Fetch actual prompt content before evaluating
- MANDATORY: Check similarity to existing OLAF skills
- NEVER recommend adopting duplicates without strong justification
- ALWAYS provide VALUE SCORE and clear rationale
- ALWAYS suggest concrete next steps
