assess-genai-initiative-idea/skill.md, before:

---
name: assess-genai-initiative-idea
description: Conduct comprehensive assessment of GenAI solution requests through structured questionnaire and research
license: Apache-2.0
metadata:
  olaf_tags: [genai, assessment, questionnaire, research]
  copyright: Copyright (c) 2026 pjmp020564
  author: pjmp020564 (on github)
  repository: https://github.com/haal-ai/haal-ide
  provider: Haal AI
---

<olaf> 

## Input Parameters

You MUST request these parameters if not provided by the user:
- **assessment_scope**: string - Specific GenAI use case or problem domain (REQUIRED)
- **stakeholder_context**: string - Primary users and organizational context (OPTIONAL)
- **timeline_constraints**: string - Expected implementation timeline (OPTIONAL)

Framework-provided parameters (available from OLAF condensed framework):
- **staging_dir**: string - Directory for output files and reports (from framework)

## User Interaction Protocol

You MUST follow the established interaction protocol strictly:
- Act / Propose-Act / Propose-Confirm-Act (defined externally)
- You WILL use Propose-Confirm-Act protocol for comprehensive assessment process

## Process

### 1. Validation Phase

You WILL verify all requirements:
- Confirm user is ready to complete comprehensive questionnaire
- Validate assessment scope is clearly defined
- Check access to web search capabilities for research phase

### 2. Execution Phase

**Questionnaire Collection:**

<!-- <questionnaire_phase> -->

You WILL collect responses to these structured questions:

**Core Problem Analysis:**
1. What is the core problem or opportunity you want GenAI to address?
2. Why is solving this important now? What is the impact if not addressed?
3. Briefly describe your current process or workflow for this need.
4. Where do you see GenAI providing the most value or automation?
**User and Impact Analysis:**
5. Who are the main users? What are their daily tasks and pain points?
6. What specific outcomes or improvements do you expect from GenAI?
7. What solutions (manual, digital, or AI) have you tried or considered?
8. Why did previous or alternative solutions not meet your needs?
**Business and Technical Constraints:**
9. If funding is needed, what are the expected business benefits and target market?
10. Are there any data, compliance, or integration constraints to consider?

<!-- </questionnaire_phase> -->

**Data Processing and Review:**

<!-- <data_review_phase> -->

You WILL process collected responses:
1. Generate simple initiative name (3 words maximum)
2. Create `[staging_dir]/genai-assessments/[initiative_name]-data.md` file with structured responses
3. Present to user for review and sign-off
4. Analyze responses for ambiguities, generic information, or gaps5. Rate issues as Critical, Important, or Suggestion
5. If critical issues found, request clarification before proceeding

<!-- </data_review_phase> -->

**Research and Analysis:**

<!-- <research_phase> -->

You WILL conduct comprehensive research:
1. Summarize key points from validated responses2. Search web for similar initiatives across multiple platforms:
   - GitHub repositories
   - Medium articles
   - Reddit discussions
   - Industry publications
   - Academic papers (up to 5 total sources)
3. Document alternatives and challenges in `[staging_dir]/genai-assessments/[initiative_name]-data.md`
4. Identify implementation challenges (technical, organizational, ethical)
5. Challenge the proposal with alternative approaches6. Request user justification for rejecting alternatives

<!-- </research_phase> -->

**Core Logic**: You WILL execute following protocol requirements
- You MUST obtain user confirmation before proceeding between major phases
- You WILL maintain structured documentation throughout process
- You MUST validate completeness before final recommendations
- You WILL provide comprehensive analysis with actionable insights

### 3. Validation Phase

You WILL validate assessment completeness:
- Confirm all questionnaire responses collected and reviewed
- Verify research conducted across required platforms
- Ensure challenges and alternatives thoroughly documented
- Validate final recommendations are actionable and well-supported

## Output Format

You WILL generate outputs following this structure:
- Primary deliverable: `[staging_dir]/genai-assessments/[initiative_name]-data.md` with structured chapters:
  - Initiative Overview
  - Questionnaire Responses
  - Alternatives and Challenges
  - Implementation Challenges
  - Conclusion and Recommendations
- Supporting documentation: Research sources and validation notes in `[staging_dir]/genai-assessments/`

## User Communication

### Progress Updates
- Confirmation when questionnaire phase is complete
- Status update when data review and validation is finished
- Confirmation when research phase is complete with source count
- Validation results for final assessment completeness

### Completion Summary
- Summary of initiative assessment with key staging
- Location of comprehensive assessment document
- Count of alternatives researched and challenges identified
- Final recommendation with next steps

### Next Steps

You WILL clearly define:
- Complete GenAI solution assessment ready for decision-making
- Assessment document location with all supporting research
- Recommended implementation approach or alternative solutions
- Specific next actions for stakeholders

## Domain-Specific Rules

You MUST follow these constraints:
- Rule 1: You MUST obtain user sign-off before proceeding to research phase
- Rule 2: You MUST rate all identified issues as Critical, Important, or Suggestion
- Rule 3: You MUST search minimum 5 sources across specified platforms
- Rule 4: You MUST challenge the proposal with alternative approaches
- Rule 5: You MUST document all staging in structured format
- Rule 6: You MUST provide actionable recommendations based on complete analysis
- Rule 7: You NEVER proceed with critical gaps in questionnaire responses
- Rule 8: You MUST validate user justification for rejecting alternatives

## Success Criteria

You WILL consider the task complete when:
- [ ] All 10 questionnaire questions answered completely
- [ ] Initiative name generated and data file created
- [ ] User review and sign-off obtained for responses
- [ ] Response quality analysis completed with issue ratings
- [ ] Web research conducted across minimum 5 sources
- [ ] Alternatives and challenges documented comprehensively
- [ ] Implementation challenges identified and analyzed
- [ ] Alternative approaches proposed and user justification obtained
- [ ] Final recommendations provided with actionable next steps
- [ ] Complete assessment document delivered with all chapters

## Required Actions
1. Validate user readiness and assessment scope definition2. Execute structured questionnaire collection with quality review
3. Generate comprehensive research across multiple platforms4. Provide challenge analysis and alternative solution evaluation
5. Deliver actionable recommendations with supporting documentation

## Error Handling

You WILL handle these scenarios:
- **Incomplete Questionnaire Responses**: Request specific missing information with guidance
- **Critical Quality Issues**: Stop process and request clarification before research phase
- **Web Search Failures**: Provide alternative research methods and manual guidance
- **User Rejection of Alternatives**: Document justification and proceed with original proposal
- **Insufficient Research Sources**: Expand search criteria and platforms until minimum met
- **Unclear Initiative Scope**: Request refined problem definition and use case clarification
- **Documentation Access Issues**: Provide alternative file creation methods

⚠️ **Critical Requirements**
- MANDATORY: Follow Propose-Confirm-Act protocol for major phase transitions
- MANDATORY: Obtain user sign-off before proceeding to research phase
- NEVER proceed with critical gaps in questionnaire responses
- NEVER skip alternative solution analysis and challenge phase
- ALWAYS document staging in structured format with clear chapters
- ALWAYS provide actionable recommendations based on complete analysis
- ALWAYS validate user justification for rejecting proposed alternatives
- ALWAYS ensure minimum research source requirements are met

Commit message:

chore: update skill documentation to clarify time tool usage and emphasize mandatory reading of delegation guidelines

assess-genai-initiative-idea/skill.md, after:

---
name: assess-genai-initiative-idea
description: Conduct comprehensive assessment of GenAI solution requests through structured questionnaire and research
license: Apache-2.0
metadata:
  olaf_tags: [genai, assessment, questionnaire, research]
  copyright: Copyright (c) 2026 pjmp020564
  author: pjmp020564 (on github)
  repository: https://github.com/haal-ai/haal-ide
  provider: Haal AI
---

<olaf>

If you are in need to get the date and time, you MUST use time tools, fallback to shell command if needed

**MANDATORY**: before doing anything else, read fully the `.olaf/team-delegation.md` file and apply its requirements strictly.

## Input Parameters

You MUST request these parameters if not provided by the user:
- **assessment_scope**: string - Specific GenAI use case or problem domain (REQUIRED)
- **stakeholder_context**: string - Primary users and organizational context (OPTIONAL)
- **timeline_constraints**: string - Expected implementation timeline (OPTIONAL)

## User Interaction Protocol

You MUST follow the established interaction protocol strictly:
- Act / Propose-Act / Propose-Confirm-Act (defined externally)
- You WILL use Propose-Confirm-Act protocol for comprehensive assessment process

## Process

### 1. Validation Phase

You WILL verify all requirements:
- Confirm user is ready to complete comprehensive questionnaire
- Validate assessment scope is clearly defined
- Check access to web search capabilities for research phase

### 2. Execution Phase

**Questionnaire Collection:**

<!-- <questionnaire_phase> -->

You WILL collect responses to these structured questions:

**Core Problem Analysis:**
1. What is the core problem or opportunity you want GenAI to address?
2. Why is solving this important now? What is the impact if not addressed?
3. Briefly describe your current process or workflow for this need.
4. Where do you see GenAI providing the most value or automation?
**User and Impact Analysis:**
5. Who are the main users? What are their daily tasks and pain points?
6. What specific outcomes or improvements do you expect from GenAI?
7. What solutions (manual, digital, or AI) have you tried or considered?
8. Why did previous or alternative solutions not meet your needs?
**Business and Technical Constraints:**
9. If funding is needed, what are the expected business benefits and target market?
10. Are there any data, compliance, or integration constraints to consider?

<!-- </questionnaire_phase> -->

**Data Processing and Review:**

<!-- <data_review_phase> -->

You WILL process collected responses:
1. Generate simple initiative name (3 words maximum)
2. Create `[staging_dir]/genai-assessments/[initiative_name]-data.md` file with structured responses
3. Present to user for review and sign-off
4. Analyze responses for ambiguities, generic information, or gaps5. Rate issues as Critical, Important, or Suggestion
5. If critical issues found, request clarification before proceeding

<!-- </data_review_phase> -->

**Research and Analysis:**

<!-- <research_phase> -->

You WILL conduct comprehensive research:
1. Summarize key points from validated responses2. Search web for similar initiatives across multiple platforms:
   - GitHub repositories
   - Medium articles
   - Reddit discussions
   - Industry publications
   - Academic papers (up to 5 total sources)
3. Document alternatives and challenges in `[staging_dir]/genai-assessments/[initiative_name]-data.md`
4. Identify implementation challenges (technical, organizational, ethical)
5. Challenge the proposal with alternative approaches6. Request user justification for rejecting alternatives

<!-- </research_phase> -->

**Core Logic**: You WILL execute following protocol requirements
- You MUST obtain user confirmation before proceeding between major phases
- You WILL maintain structured documentation throughout process
- You MUST validate completeness before final recommendations
- You WILL provide comprehensive analysis with actionable insights

### 3. Validation Phase

You WILL validate assessment completeness:
- Confirm all questionnaire responses collected and reviewed
- Verify research conducted across required platforms
- Ensure challenges and alternatives thoroughly documented
- Validate final recommendations are actionable and well-supported

## Output Format

You WILL generate outputs following this structure:
- Primary deliverable: `[staging_dir]/genai-assessments/[initiative_name]-data.md` with structured chapters:
  - Initiative Overview
  - Questionnaire Responses
  - Alternatives and Challenges
  - Implementation Challenges
  - Conclusion and Recommendations
- Supporting documentation: Research sources and validation notes in `[staging_dir]/genai-assessments/`

## User Communication

### Progress Updates
- Confirmation when questionnaire phase is complete
- Status update when data review and validation is finished
- Confirmation when research phase is complete with source count
- Validation results for final assessment completeness

### Completion Summary
- Summary of initiative assessment with key staging
- Location of comprehensive assessment document
- Count of alternatives researched and challenges identified
- Final recommendation with next steps

### Next Steps

You WILL clearly define:
- Complete GenAI solution assessment ready for decision-making
- Assessment document location with all supporting research
- Recommended implementation approach or alternative solutions
- Specific next actions for stakeholders

## Domain-Specific Rules

You MUST follow these constraints:
- Rule 1: You MUST obtain user sign-off before proceeding to research phase
- Rule 2: You MUST rate all identified issues as Critical, Important, or Suggestion
- Rule 3: You MUST search minimum 5 sources across specified platforms
- Rule 4: You MUST challenge the proposal with alternative approaches
- Rule 5: You MUST document all staging in structured format
- Rule 6: You MUST provide actionable recommendations based on complete analysis
- Rule 7: You NEVER proceed with critical gaps in questionnaire responses
- Rule 8: You MUST validate user justification for rejecting alternatives

## Success Criteria

You WILL consider the task complete when:
- [ ] All 10 questionnaire questions answered completely
- [ ] Initiative name generated and data file created
- [ ] User review and sign-off obtained for responses
- [ ] Response quality analysis completed with issue ratings
- [ ] Web research conducted across minimum 5 sources
- [ ] Alternatives and challenges documented comprehensively
- [ ] Implementation challenges identified and analyzed
- [ ] Alternative approaches proposed and user justification obtained
- [ ] Final recommendations provided with actionable next steps
- [ ] Complete assessment document delivered with all chapters

## Required Actions
1. Validate user readiness and assessment scope definition2. Execute structured questionnaire collection with quality review
3. Generate comprehensive research across multiple platforms4. Provide challenge analysis and alternative solution evaluation
5. Deliver actionable recommendations with supporting documentation

## Error Handling

You WILL handle these scenarios:
- **Incomplete Questionnaire Responses**: Request specific missing information with guidance
- **Critical Quality Issues**: Stop process and request clarification before research phase
- **Web Search Failures**: Provide alternative research methods and manual guidance
- **User Rejection of Alternatives**: Document justification and proceed with original proposal
- **Insufficient Research Sources**: Expand search criteria and platforms until minimum met
- **Unclear Initiative Scope**: Request refined problem definition and use case clarification
- **Documentation Access Issues**: Provide alternative file creation methods

⚠️ **Critical Requirements**
- MANDATORY: Follow Propose-Confirm-Act protocol for major phase transitions
- MANDATORY: Obtain user sign-off before proceeding to research phase
- NEVER proceed with critical gaps in questionnaire responses
- NEVER skip alternative solution analysis and challenge phase
- ALWAYS document staging in structured format with clear chapters
- ALWAYS provide actionable recommendations based on complete analysis
- ALWAYS validate user justification for rejecting proposed alternatives
- ALWAYS ensure minimum research source requirements are met
