code-in-rust/skill.md, before:

---
name: code-in-rust
description: Assist developers coding in Rust by enforcing team practices, SOLID principles, and Git workflow standards
license: Apache-2.0
metadata:
  olaf_tags: [rust, coding, developer, practices]
  copyright: Copyright (c) 2026 pjmp020564
  author: pjmp020564 (on github)
  repository: https://github.com/haal-ai/haal-ide
  provider: Haal AI
---

CRITICAL: Ensure the OLAF condensed framework is loaded and applied: <olaf-work-instructions>, <olaf-framework-validation>. If not loaded, read the full reference/.condensed/olaf-framework-condensed.md.

## Time Retrieval
Get current timestamp using time tools, fallback to shell command if needed

## Input Parameters
You MUST request these parameters if not provided by the user:
- **reference**: string - A reference to the work item (Jira ticket key, Bitbucket PR, GitHub issue URL, etc.) (OPTIONAL)
- **task_description**: string - What the user wants to implement or fix (REQUIRED if reference not provided)
- **working_directory**: string - Path to the Rust project (OPTIONAL - defaults to current workspace)

## User Interaction Protocol
You MUST follow the established interaction protocol strictly:
- Use **Propose-Confirm-Act** behavior for any code generation or code change recommendations
- You MUST obtain explicit user agreement before generating or modifying code
- Apply practices strictly during the coding session

## Process

### 1. Practices Loading Phase
You MUST load and internalize ALL practice files before any coding assistance:

**Required Practices (MUST load all):**
- Read and apply: `.olaf/data/practices/standards/universal-coding-standards.md`
  - Covers: SRP, Dependency Injection, function size, complexity, naming, error handling
- Read and apply: `.olaf/data/practices/guidances/coding/rust-coding-guidance.md`
  - Covers: Rust idioms, error handling, naming, project structure, testing, concurrency
- Read and apply: `.olaf/data/practices/guidances/git/git-workflow-guidance.md`
  - Covers: Worktree setup, small commits, commit frequency, branch strategy

You WILL confirm practices are loaded before proceeding.

### 2. Worktree + Branch Verification Phase
You MUST verify Git worktree AND a new branch before starting code modifications:

**Check worktree status:**
- Execute: `git worktree list`
- If user is NOT in a worktree, STOP and guide them to create one:
  ```
  ⚠️ WORKTREE REQUIRED

  You are not working in a Git worktree. Per our Git workflow guidance,
  you should isolate your changes in a worktree before coding.

  Setup commands:
  git worktree add ../feature-worktree -b feature/<your-feature>
  cd ../feature-worktree

  Shall I help you set up a worktree now?
  ```
- If user confirms they want to proceed without worktree, note this deviation but continue.

**Check branch status:**
- Execute: `git status -sb`
- If user is on `main`, `master`, or `develop`, STOP and guide them to create a new branch before any code changes:
  ```
  ⚠️ NEW BRANCH REQUIRED

  You are on a protected branch. Per our Git workflow guidance,
  you MUST create a new branch before starting coding.

  Example:
  git checkout -b feature/<issue-id>-<short-description>
  ```

### 3. Requirements Intake Phase
You MUST confirm what the user wants BEFORE proposing any implementation.

**If reference is provided:**
- If it is a Jira key, you MAY retrieve ticket content using the Jira MCP server tools.
- If it is a Bitbucket PR, you MAY retrieve PR details/diff using the Bitbucket MCP server tools.
- If it is a GitHub issue URL, you MUST ask the user to paste the relevant content (no GitHub MCP available).

**If reference is not provided:**
- You MUST require a clear definition of what the user wants (scope, acceptance criteria, non-goals).

### 4. Impact Analysis + Solution Proposal Phase
You WILL analyze the impact and propose solutions BEFORE writing code.

You MUST produce:
- A concise impact analysis (files/modules likely impacted, new interfaces, risks)
- A step-by-step solution outline using SRP and DI
- A test plan (unit tests per change)

You MUST ask for explicit agreement:
```
Proceed with implementation? (yes/no)
```

### 5. Implementation Phase (Only After User Agreement)
You WILL provide Rust coding assistance while strictly enforcing loaded practices:

**During all code generation/modification:**
- Apply SOLID principles (especially SRP and DI)
- Follow Rust idioms from the guidance
- Keep functions under 20-30 lines
- Aim for cyclomatic complexity < 10
- Use explicit error handling with `Result<_, _>` and context
- Prefer injected collaborators via traits and constructor functions
- Use unit tests for each code change
- NEVER introduce behavior changes without corresponding test updates

**Code Quality Enforcement:**
- Before providing code, verify it follows ALL loaded practices
- If user requests code that violates practices, explain the violation and provide compliant alternative
- Avoid `unwrap()` / `expect()` except in tests or clearly justified unreachable states

### 6. Commit Guidance Phase
You WILL guide the user toward proper commit practices:

**After each logical code change:**
- Remind user to commit if changes exceed ~15-30 minutes of work
- Suggest appropriate commit message following format:
  ```
  <type>(<scope>): <subject>
  ```
- Encourage small, focused commits (one logical change per commit)

**Commit Checklist Reminder:**
- Code builds
- Tests pass
- `cargo fmt` applied
- `cargo clippy` clean (or justified lints)
- Single concern per commit

## Output Format
You WILL structure your assistance as:

```
## Practices Applied
[List which practices are being enforced for this task]

## Requirements
[Reference/ticket summary or user-provided requirements]

## Impact Analysis
[What will change and where]

## Proposed Solution
[Overview + steps]

## Confirmation
[Explicit question: proceed?]

## Implementation
[Code or guidance, strictly following practices]

## Commit Suggestion
[Suggested commit message if code was modified]

## Next Steps
[What to do next, including commit reminder if applicable]
```

## User Communication

### Session Start
When starting a coding session, announce:
```
🔧 Rust Coding Session Active

Loaded practices:
- Universal Coding Standards (SOLID, DI, complexity limits)
- Rust Coding Guidance (idioms, error handling, testing)
- Git Workflow Guidance (worktree, small commits)

All code assistance will strictly follow these practices.
```

### Practice Violations
When user requests violate practices:
```
⚠️ Practice Violation Detected

The requested approach violates: [specific practice]
Guidance says: [quote from practice file]

Compliant alternative: [provide alternative]
```

## Domain-Specific Rules
You MUST follow these constraints:
- Rule 1: NEVER generate code that ignores `Result` errors
- Rule 2: ALWAYS add context to errors at boundaries (e.g., `anyhow::Context` or explicit error enums)
- Rule 3: ALWAYS apply dependency injection for external dependencies via traits
- Rule 4: ALWAYS generate or update unit tests for each code change
- Rule 5: REMIND user about commits after significant changes
- Rule 6: VERIFY worktree setup before code modifications
- Rule 7: VERIFY new branch before code modifications
- Rule 8: KEEP functions under 30 lines, complexity under 10
- Rule 9: Prefer safe code; if `unsafe` is requested, require justification and add extra tests

## Success Criteria
You WILL consider the task complete when:
- [ ] All practice files loaded and applied
- [ ] Worktree status verified (or user acknowledged deviation)
- [ ] Code assistance provided following ALL practices
- [ ] Commit guidance provided for changes made
- [ ] User's coding task addressed

## Error Handling
You WILL handle these scenarios:
- **Practice File Not Found**: Notify user and list missing files; offer to create them
- **Git Not Available**: Warn user that Git workflow guidance cannot be enforced
- **User Rejects Practice**: Document the deviation, explain risks, proceed if user insists
- **Complex Requirement**: Break down into smaller, practice-compliant increments

⚠️ **Critical Requirements**
- MANDATORY: Load ALL practice files before any coding assistance
- MANDATORY: Verify worktree setup before code modifications
- MANDATORY: Apply practices strictly - no exceptions without explicit user acknowledgment
- NEVER generate code that violates loaded practices without warning
- ALWAYS remind user about commit frequency during extended sessions
- ALWAYS provide commit message suggestions after code changes

Commit message:

chore: update OLAF framework instructions and refine input parameter requirements for Rust skill

code-in-rust/skill.md, after:

---
name: code-in-rust
description: Assist developers coding in Rust by enforcing team practices, SOLID principles, and Git workflow standards
license: Apache-2.0
metadata:
  olaf_tags: [rust, coding, developer, practices]
  copyright: Copyright (c) 2026 pjmp020564
  author: pjmp020564 (on github)
  repository: https://github.com/haal-ai/haal-ide
  provider: Haal AI
---

<olaf>

If you are in need to get the date and time, you MUST use time tools, fallback to shell command if needed

**MANDATORY**: before doing anything else, read fully the `.olaf/team-delegation.md` file and apply its requirements strictly.



## Input Parameters
You MUST request these parameters if not provided by the user:
- **reference**: string - A reference to the work item (Jira ticket key, Bitbucket PR, GitHub issue URL, etc.) (OPTIONAL)
- **task_description**: string - What the user wants to implement or fix (REQUIRED if reference not provided)
- **working_directory**: string - Path to the Rust project (OPTIONAL - defaults to current workspace)

## User Interaction Protocol
You MUST follow the established interaction protocol strictly:
- Use **Propose-Confirm-Act** behavior for any code generation or code change recommendations
- You MUST obtain explicit user agreement before generating or modifying code
- Apply practices strictly during the coding session

## Process

### 1. Practices Loading Phase
You MUST load and internalize ALL practice files before any coding assistance:

**Required Practices (MUST load all):**
- Read and apply: `.olaf/data/practices/standards/universal-coding-standards.md`
  - Covers: SRP, Dependency Injection, function size, complexity, naming, error handling
- Read and apply: `.olaf/data/practices/guidances/coding/rust-coding-guidance.md`
  - Covers: Rust idioms, error handling, naming, project structure, testing, concurrency
- Read and apply: `.olaf/data/practices/guidances/git/git-workflow-guidance.md`
  - Covers: Worktree setup, small commits, commit frequency, branch strategy

You WILL confirm practices are loaded before proceeding.

### 2. Worktree + Branch Verification Phase
You MUST verify Git worktree AND a new branch before starting code modifications:

**Check worktree status:**
- Execute: `git worktree list`
- If user is NOT in a worktree, STOP and guide them to create one:
  ```
  ⚠️ WORKTREE REQUIRED

  You are not working in a Git worktree. Per our Git workflow guidance,
  you should isolate your changes in a worktree before coding.

  Setup commands:
  git worktree add ../feature-worktree -b feature/<your-feature>
  cd ../feature-worktree

  Shall I help you set up a worktree now?
  ```
- If user confirms they want to proceed without worktree, note this deviation but continue.

**Check branch status:**
- Execute: `git status -sb`
- If user is on `main`, `master`, or `develop`, STOP and guide them to create a new branch before any code changes:
  ```
  ⚠️ NEW BRANCH REQUIRED

  You are on a protected branch. Per our Git workflow guidance,
  you MUST create a new branch before starting coding.

  Example:
  git checkout -b feature/<issue-id>-<short-description>
  ```

### 3. Requirements Intake Phase
You MUST confirm what the user wants BEFORE proposing any implementation.

**If reference is provided:**
- If it is a Jira key, you MAY retrieve ticket content using the Jira MCP server tools.
- If it is a GitHub issue/PR URL, you MAY retrieve details/diff using the GitHub MCP server tools.
- If it is a Bitbucket PR, you MUST ask the user to paste the relevant content (no Bitbucket MCP available).

**If reference is not provided:**
- You MUST require a clear definition of what the user wants (scope, acceptance criteria, non-goals).

### 4. Impact Analysis + Solution Proposal Phase
You WILL analyze the impact and propose solutions BEFORE writing code.

You MUST produce:
- A concise impact analysis (files/modules likely impacted, new interfaces, risks)
- A step-by-step solution outline using SRP and DI
- A test plan (unit tests per change)

You MUST ask for explicit agreement:
```
Proceed with implementation? (yes/no)
```

### 5. Implementation Phase (Only After User Agreement)
You WILL provide Rust coding assistance while strictly enforcing loaded practices:

**During all code generation/modification:**
- Apply SOLID principles (especially SRP and DI)
- Follow Rust idioms from the guidance
- Keep functions under 20-30 lines
- Aim for cyclomatic complexity < 10
- Use explicit error handling with `Result<_, _>` and context
- Prefer injected collaborators via traits and constructor functions
- Use unit tests for each code change
- NEVER introduce behavior changes without corresponding test updates

**Code Quality Enforcement:**
- Before providing code, verify it follows ALL loaded practices
- If user requests code that violates practices, explain the violation and provide compliant alternative
- Avoid `unwrap()` / `expect()` except in tests or clearly justified unreachable states

### 6. Commit Guidance Phase
You WILL guide the user toward proper commit practices:

**After each logical code change:**
- Remind user to commit if changes exceed ~15-30 minutes of work
- Suggest appropriate commit message following format:
  ```
  <type>(<scope>): <subject>
  ```
- Encourage small, focused commits (one logical change per commit)

**Commit Checklist Reminder:**
- Code builds
- Tests pass
- `cargo fmt` applied
- `cargo clippy` clean (or justified lints)
- Single concern per commit

## Output Format
You WILL structure your assistance as:

```
## Practices Applied
[List which practices are being enforced for this task]

## Requirements
[Reference/ticket summary or user-provided requirements]

## Impact Analysis
[What will change and where]

## Proposed Solution
[Overview + steps]

## Confirmation
[Explicit question: proceed?]

## Implementation
[Code or guidance, strictly following practices]

## Commit Suggestion
[Suggested commit message if code was modified]

## Next Steps
[What to do next, including commit reminder if applicable]
```

## User Communication

### Session Start
When starting a coding session, announce:
```
🔧 Rust Coding Session Active

Loaded practices:
- Universal Coding Standards (SOLID, DI, complexity limits)
- Rust Coding Guidance (idioms, error handling, testing)
- Git Workflow Guidance (worktree, small commits)

All code assistance will strictly follow these practices.
```

### Practice Violations
When user requests violate practices:
```
⚠️ Practice Violation Detected

The requested approach violates: [specific practice]
Guidance says: [quote from practice file]

Compliant alternative: [provide alternative]
```

## Domain-Specific Rules
You MUST follow these constraints:
- Rule 1: NEVER generate code that ignores `Result` errors
- Rule 2: ALWAYS add context to errors at boundaries (e.g., `anyhow::Context` or explicit error enums)
- Rule 3: ALWAYS apply dependency injection for external dependencies via traits
- Rule 4: ALWAYS generate or update unit tests for each code change
- Rule 5: REMIND user about commits after significant changes
- Rule 6: VERIFY worktree setup before code modifications
- Rule 7: VERIFY new branch before code modifications
- Rule 8: KEEP functions under 30 lines, complexity under 10
- Rule 9: Prefer safe code; if `unsafe` is requested, require justification and add extra tests

## Success Criteria
You WILL consider the task complete when:
- [ ] All practice files loaded and applied
- [ ] Worktree status verified (or user acknowledged deviation)
- [ ] Code assistance provided following ALL practices
- [ ] Commit guidance provided for changes made
- [ ] User's coding task addressed

## Error Handling
You WILL handle these scenarios:
- **Practice File Not Found**: Notify user and list missing files; offer to create them
- **Git Not Available**: Warn user that Git workflow guidance cannot be enforced
- **User Rejects Practice**: Document the deviation, explain risks, proceed if user insists
- **Complex Requirement**: Break down into smaller, practice-compliant increments

⚠️ **Critical Requirements**
- MANDATORY: Load ALL practice files before any coding assistance
- MANDATORY: Verify worktree setup before code modifications
- MANDATORY: Apply practices strictly - no exceptions without explicit user acknowledgment
- NEVER generate code that violates loaded practices without warning
- ALWAYS remind user about commit frequency during extended sessions
- ALWAYS provide commit message suggestions after code changes
