review-github-pr/skill.md, before:

---
name: review-github-pr
description: Master coordinator for chained GitHub Pull Request review execution
license: Apache-2.0
metadata:
  olaf_tags: [code-review, github, pull-request, master-chain]
  olaf_protocol: Propose-Act
---

# GitHub PR Review - Master Chain Coordinator

## Master Chain Protocol

**CRITICAL EXECUTION RULES**:
- ALWAYS display the complete task list at the start of execution
- Execute tasks in STRICT SEQUENTIAL ORDER
- Load only ONE task prompt at a time
- Pass context between tasks via simple variables
- NO anticipation or optimization across tasks
- Each task must complete fully before next

**STARTUP REQUIREMENT**:
Before executing any tasks, MUST display:
```
📋 GitHub PR Review - Task Chain
================================
Task 0: Retrieve time and environment information
Task 1: Select which Pull Request to analyze
Task 2: Get PR Data from GitHub (metadata and Diff)
Task 3: Load PR Metadata for analysis
Task 4: Get analyzer for metadata and do the analysis
Task 5: Get Diff data for potential analysis
Task 6: Detect if code files are in the diff
Task 7: Do code analysis (if code files are present) [CONDITIONAL]
Task 8: Review Documentation [CONDITIONAL]
Task 9: Cleanup temporary extraction files
Task 10: Ask user what output he/she/it wants
Task 11: Generate Final Report
================================
```

## Task Chain Definition

```yaml
task_chain:
  - id: "retrieve-timestamp"
    name: "Retrieve time and environment information"
    prompt: "../common/tasks/retrieve-timestamp.md"
    required: true
    
  - id: "select-pr" 
    name: "Select which Pull Request to analyze"
    prompt: "tasks/select-pr.md"
    required: true
    depends_on: ["retrieve-timestamp"]
    
  - id: "extract-pr-data"
    name: "Get PR Data from GitHub (metadata and Diff)" 
    prompt: "tasks/extract-pr-data.md"
    required: true
    depends_on: ["retrieve-timestamp", "select-pr"]
    
  - id: "analyze-metadata"
    name: "Load PR Metadata for analysis"
    prompt: "tasks/analyze-metadata.md" 
    required: true
    depends_on: ["extract-pr-data"]
    
  - id: "analyze-pr-standards"
    name: "Get analyzer for metadata and do the analysis"
    prompt: "tasks/analyze-pr-standards.md"
    required: true 
    depends_on: ["analyze-metadata"]
    
  - id: "prepare-diff"
    name: "Get Diff data for potential analysis"
    prompt: "tasks/prepare-diff.md"
    required: true
    depends_on: ["extract-pr-data"]
    
  - id: "detect-file-types"
    name: "Detect if code files are in the diff"
    prompt: "tasks/detect-file-types.md"
    required: true
    depends_on: ["analyze-metadata", "prepare-diff"]
    
  - id: "review-code"
    name: "Do code analysis (if code files are present)"
    prompt: "tasks/review-code.md"
    required: false
    depends_on: ["detect-file-types"]
    condition: "code_files_found"
    
  - id: "review-documentation"
    name: "Review Documentation"
    prompt: "tasks/review-documentation.md" 
    required: false
    depends_on: ["detect-file-types"]
    condition: "no_code_files"
    
  - id: "cleanup-extraction-files"
    name: "Cleanup temporary extraction files"
    prompt: "tasks/cleanup-extraction-files.md"
    required: true
    depends_on: ["review-code", "review-documentation"]
    
  - id: "select-output-method"
    name: "Ask user what output he/she/it wants"
    prompt: "tasks/select-output-method.md"
    required: true
    depends_on: ["cleanup-extraction-files"]
    
  - id: "generate-report"
    name: "Generate Final Report"
    prompt: "tasks/generate-report.md"
    required: false
    depends_on: ["select-output-method"]
    condition: "output_not_skipped"
```

## State Management

### Simple Context Passing
Context is passed between tasks using simple variables:
- `timestamp`: Session timestamp (YYYYMMDD-HHMMSS)
- `pr_number`: Selected PR number
- `pr_info_file`: Path to PR metadata JSON
- `pr_diff_file`: Path to diff text file  
- `code_files_found`: Boolean for code vs documentation
- `review_type`: "code" or "documentation"
- `review_summary`: Brief review text
- `recommendation`: "APPROVE" or "REQUEST_CHANGES"
- `skip_report`: Boolean to skip Task 11 (set by Task 10)

## Master Execution Protocol

### 1. Initialize Session
Get environment info and timestamp:
```bash
python skills/common/tools/get-env.py
```

### 2. Execute Task Chain Loop
For each task in task_chain:

1. **Load Task Prompt**: Read task-specific prompt file
2. **Check Dependencies**: Verify required context variables exist
3. **Execute Task**: Run task with available context
4. **Pass Context**: Make results available to next task
5. **Continue to Next**: Move to next task in chain

### 3. Task Execution Template
```markdown
**EXECUTING TASK: [task_name]**

**Context Available**:
- Session Timestamp: [timestamp]
- Previous Results: [available variables]

**Task-Specific Instructions**:
[load_and_execute_task_prompt]

**Context Updates**: 
- Store results in simple variables for next tasks
```

### 4. Error Handling
- **Task Failure**: Stop chain, report error
- **Missing Dependencies**: Show clear dependency requirements
- **Script Failures**: Display script output and exit

### 5. Session Recovery
Tasks are independent - no session recovery needed.
Each execution starts fresh with environment info.

## Task Prompt Requirements

Each task prompt MUST include:

### Header Structure
```markdown
---
task_id: "task-X"
task_name: "[descriptive name]"
dependencies: ["context-variable-Y", "context-variable-Z"]
  copyright: Copyright (c) 2026 pjmp020564
  author: pjmp020564 (on github)
  repository: https://github.com/haal-ai/haal-ide
  provider: Haal AI
---

# Task X: [Name]

## Input Context
**Required Context Variables**: [list]
**Required Files**: [list] 
**Required Tools**: [list]

## Task Instructions
[focused task-specific instructions]

## Output Requirements
**Context Variables Created**: [what to store]
**Files Created**: [list]
**Context Passed**: [what next tasks need]
```

### Focus Principles
- **Single Responsibility**: Each task does ONE thing only
- **Clear Boundaries**: Explicit input/output definitions
- **No Forward References**: No mention of future tasks
- **Context Driven**: Use only provided context variables
- **Atomic Completion**: Complete task or fail, no partial states

Commit message:

chore: remove timestamp dependency and simplify task chain execution across multiple skills
Remove retrieve-timestamp task and timestamp context variables from convert-skill-to-chain, esdi-chain, generate-design, and generate-implementation-plan skills. Update task prompt paths to use relative paths without parent directory references. Eliminate mandatory task list display at startup and simplify execution protocol sections. Renumber tasks to start from 1 instead of 0 after removing timestamp initialization

review-github-pr/skill.md, after:

---
name: review-github-pr
description: Master coordinator for chained GitHub Pull Request review execution
license: Apache-2.0
metadata:
  olaf_tags: [code-review, github, pull-request, master-chain]
  olaf_protocol: Propose-Act
---

# GitHub PR Review - Master Chain Coordinator

## Master Chain Protocol

**CRITICAL EXECUTION RULES**:
- Execute tasks in STRICT SEQUENTIAL ORDER
- Load only ONE task prompt at a time
- Pass context between tasks via simple variables
- NO anticipation or optimization across tasks
- Each task must complete fully before next

**STARTUP REQUIREMENT**:
Task Chain
Task 1: Select which Pull Request to analyze
Task 2: Get PR Data from GitHub (metadata and Diff)
Task 3: Load PR Metadata for analysis
Task 4: Get analyzer for metadata and do the analysis
Task 5: Get Diff data for potential analysis
Task 6: Detect if code files are in the diff
Task 7: Do code analysis (if code files are present) [CONDITIONAL]
Task 8: Review Documentation [CONDITIONAL]
Task 9: Cleanup temporary extraction files
Task 10: Ask user what output he/she/it wants
Task 11: Generate Final Report

## Task Chain Definition

```yaml
task_chain:
  - id: "select-pr" 
    name: "Select which Pull Request to analyze"
    prompt: "tasks/select-pr.md"
    required: true
    
  - id: "extract-pr-data"
    name: "Get PR Data from GitHub (metadata and Diff)" 
    prompt: "tasks/extract-pr-data.md"
    required: true
    depends_on: ["select-pr"]
    
  - id: "analyze-metadata"
    name: "Load PR Metadata for analysis"
    prompt: "tasks/analyze-metadata.md" 
    required: true
    depends_on: ["extract-pr-data"]
    
  - id: "analyze-pr-standards"
    name: "Get analyzer for metadata and do the analysis"
    prompt: "tasks/analyze-pr-standards.md"
    required: true 
    depends_on: ["analyze-metadata"]
    
  - id: "prepare-diff"
    name: "Get Diff data for potential analysis"
    prompt: "tasks/prepare-diff.md"
    required: true
    depends_on: ["extract-pr-data"]
    
  - id: "detect-file-types"
    name: "Detect if code files are in the diff"
    prompt: "tasks/detect-file-types.md"
    required: true
    depends_on: ["analyze-metadata", "prepare-diff"]
    
  - id: "review-code"
    name: "Do code analysis (if code files are present)"
    prompt: "tasks/review-code.md"
    required: false
    depends_on: ["detect-file-types"]
    condition: "code_files_found"
    
  - id: "review-documentation"
    name: "Review Documentation"
    prompt: "tasks/review-documentation.md" 
    required: false
    depends_on: ["detect-file-types"]
    condition: "no_code_files"
    
  - id: "cleanup-extraction-files"
    name: "Cleanup temporary extraction files"
    prompt: "tasks/cleanup-extraction-files.md"
    required: true
    depends_on: ["review-code", "review-documentation"]
    
  - id: "select-output-method"
    name: "Ask user what output he/she/it wants"
    prompt: "tasks/select-output-method.md"
    required: true
    depends_on: ["cleanup-extraction-files"]
    
  - id: "generate-report"
    name: "Generate Final Report"
    prompt: "tasks/generate-report.md"
    required: false
    depends_on: ["select-output-method"]
    condition: "output_not_skipped"
```

## State Management

### Simple Context Passing
Context is passed between tasks using simple variables:
- `timestamp`: Session timestamp (YYYYMMDD-HHMMSS)
- `pr_number`: Selected PR number
- `pr_info_file`: Path to PR metadata JSON
- `pr_diff_file`: Path to diff text file  
- `code_files_found`: Boolean for code vs documentation
- `review_type`: "code" or "documentation"
- `review_summary`: Brief review text
- `recommendation`: "APPROVE" or "REQUEST_CHANGES"
- `skip_report`: Boolean to skip Task 11 (set by Task 10)

## Master Execution Protocol

### 1. Initialize Session
Initialize session context for tracking.

### 2. Execute Task Chain Loop
For each task in task_chain:

1. **Load Task Prompt**: Read task-specific prompt file
2. **Check Dependencies**: Verify required context variables exist
3. **Execute Task**: Run task with available context
4. **Pass Context**: Make results available to next task
5. **Continue to Next**: Move to next task in chain

### 3. Task Execution Template
```markdown
**EXECUTING TASK: [task_name]**

**Context Available**:
- Session Timestamp: [timestamp]
- Previous Results: [available variables]

**Task-Specific Instructions**:
[load_and_execute_task_prompt]

**Context Updates**: 
- Store results in simple variables for next tasks
```

### 4. Error Handling
- **Task Failure**: Stop chain, report error
- **Missing Dependencies**: Show clear dependency requirements
- **Script Failures**: Display script output and exit

### 5. Session Recovery
Tasks are independent - no session recovery needed.
Each execution starts fresh with environment info.

## Task Prompt Requirements

Each task prompt MUST include:

### Header Structure
```markdown
---
task_id: "task-X"
task_name: "[descriptive name]"
dependencies: ["context-variable-Y", "context-variable-Z"]
  copyright: Copyright (c) 2026 pjmp020564
  author: pjmp020564 (on github)
  repository: https://github.com/haal-ai/haal-ide
  provider: Haal AI
---

# Task X: [Name]

## Input Context
**Required Context Variables**: [list]
**Required Files**: [list] 
**Required Tools**: [list]

## Task Instructions
[focused task-specific instructions]

## Output Requirements
**Context Variables Created**: [what to store]
**Files Created**: [list]
**Context Passed**: [what next tasks need]
```

### Focus Principles
- **Single Responsibility**: Each task does ONE thing only
- **Clear Boundaries**: Explicit input/output definitions
- **No Forward References**: No mention of future tasks
- **Context Driven**: Use only provided context variables
- **Atomic Completion**: Complete task or fail, no partial states
