create-skill/templates/skill-template.md, before:

---
name: [verb-entity-complement skill name]
description: [Brief description of what this skill accomplishes]
license: Apache-2.0
metadata:
  tags: [tag1, tag2, tag3, tag4]
  copyright: Copyright (c) 2026 pjmp020564
  author: pjmp020564 (on github)
  repository: https://github.com/haal-ai/haal-ide
  provider: Haal AI
---

<olaf>

if you are in need to get the date and  time, use time tools, fallback to shell command if needed

**MANDATORY**: before doing anything else, read fully the `.olaf/team-delegation.md` file and apply its requirements strictly.

## Input Parameters
You MUST request these parameters if not provided by the user:
- **param_name**: type|options - Description (REQUIRED/OPTIONAL)
- **param_name**: type|options - Description (REQUIRED/OPTIONAL)
- **optional_param**: type|options - Optional description

## User Interaction Protocol
You MUST follow the established interaction protocol strictly:
- Act / Propose-Act / Propose-Confirm-Act (defined externally)
- Select appropriate protocol based on operation risk and impact

## Prerequisites (if applicable)
If this skill is part of a workflow chain:
1. You MUST verify the preceding phase/action was completed
2. You WILL validate expected outcomes from previous step:
   - [Expected file/data from previous phase]
   - [Required state or configuration]
   - [Specific deliverables that must exist]

## Process

### 1. Validation Phase
You WILL verify all requirements:
- Confirm all required parameters are provided
- Validate prerequisites are met (if applicable)
- Check access to required tools and files

### 2. Execution Phase
You WILL execute these operations as needed:

**Terminal Operations** (when required):
- Execute command: `[specific command with parameters]`
- Execute script: `/tools/script-name.[py|sh|ps1|js]` for automation
- Validate command execution success

**Tool Operations** (when required):
- Use internal tool: `tool_name` for [specific purpose]
- Use MCP server tool: `mcp_server_name.tool_name` for [specific operation]

**File Operations** (when required):
- Read/Write file: `.olaf/work/staging//subfolder/file-name.md` or specific path when applicable
- Process file content according to requirements

**Core Logic**: Execute following protocol requirements
- Apply appropriate interaction protocol
- Complete core processing steps
- Provide required user confirmations

### 3. Validation Phase
You WILL validate results:
- Confirm all outputs meet requirements
- Verify functionality if applicable

## Output Format
You WILL generate outputs following this structure:
- Primary deliverable: Reference external template if needed: `templates/[template-name].md`
- Supporting files: [location and naming convention]
- Documentation: [specific format requirements]

**IMPORTANT**: If your skill needs templates, reference them as external files. Do NOT embed template content in this prompt.

## User Communication
You WILL provide these updates to the user:

### Progress Updates
- Confirmation when each major step completes
- Location/reference of any changes made
- Timestamp identifier used: [YYYYMMDD-HHmm format]

### Completion Summary
- Summary of actions taken
- Files created/modified with locations
- Any issues encountered and resolutions

### Next Steps (if part of workflow)
You WILL clearly define:
- Immediate next actions required
- Objectives for next phase (concise, specific)
- Files/resources provided to next phase
- Dependencies for next step

## Domain-Specific Rules
You MUST follow these constraints:
- Rule 1: [Specific constraint with clear enforcement]
- Rule 2: [Order/sequence requirements with rationale]
- Rule 3: [Data validation rules with examples]
- Rule 4: [Security or safety requirements]

## Success Criteria
You WILL consider the task complete when:
- [ ] All required parameters validated
- [ ] Core logic executed successfully
- [ ] Outputs generated in specified format
- [ ] User communication completed
- [ ] Next steps defined (if applicable)

## Required Actions
1. Validate all required input parameters and prerequisites
2. Execute operations following appropriate interaction protocol
3. Generate outputs in specified format
4. Provide user communication and confirmations
5. Define next steps if part of workflow

## Error Handling
You WILL handle these scenarios:
- **Missing Parameters**: Request specific missing items from user
- **File Access Issues**: Provide clear error message and resolution steps
- **Tool Failures**: Offer alternative approaches or manual steps
- **Validation Failures**: Stop process and request user guidance

⚠️ **Critical Requirements**
- MANDATORY: Follow established interaction protocol (Act/Propose-Act/Propose-Confirm-Act)
- NEVER bypass protocol requirements
- ALWAYS validate outputs before considering task complete
- ALWAYS provide rollback instructions for destructive operations
- ALWAYS document assumptions and limitations
- ALWAYS confirm user approval for significant changes

Commit message:

chore: remove file-modification-rules.md and update skill structure to use skill.md instead of prompts/skill-name.md
Remove file-modification-rules.md knowledge base file containing auto-generated file handling protocols and script execution guidelines. Update skill-structure-schema.md to change main prompt location from prompts/skill-name.md to skill.md at skill root, add tasks/ directory structure with task grouping support, remove BOM path conventions section, and simplify file generation order.

create-skill/templates/skill-template.md, after:

---
name: [verb-entity-complement skill name]
description: [Brief description of what this skill accomplishes]
license: Apache-2.0
metadata:
  tags: [tag1, tag2, tag3, tag4]
  plugins: [plugin1, plugin2]
  copyright: Copyright (c) 2026 pjmp020564
  author: pjmp020564 (on github)
  repository: https://github.com/haal-ai/haal-ide
  provider: Haal AI
---

<olaf>

If you are in need to get the date and time, you MUST use time tools, fallback to shell command if needed

**MANDATORY**: before doing anything else, read fully the `.olaf/team-delegation.md` file and apply its requirements strictly.

## Input Parameters
You MUST request these parameters if not provided by the user:
- **param_name**: type|options - Description (REQUIRED/OPTIONAL)
- **param_name**: type|options - Description (REQUIRED/OPTIONAL)
- **optional_param**: type|options - Optional description

## User Interaction Protocol
You MUST follow the established interaction protocol strictly:
- Act / Propose-Act / Propose-Confirm-Act (defined externally)
- Select appropriate protocol based on operation risk and impact

## Prerequisites (if applicable)
If this skill is part of a workflow chain:
1. You MUST verify the preceding phase/action was completed
2. You WILL validate expected outcomes from previous step:
   - [Expected file/data from previous phase]
   - [Required state or configuration]
   - [Specific deliverables that must exist]

## Process

### 1. Validation Phase
You MUST verify all requirements:
- Confirm all required parameters are provided
- Validate prerequisites are met (if applicable)
- Check access to required tools and files

### 2. Execution Phase
You MUST execute these operations as needed:

**Terminal Operations** (when required):
- Execute command: `[specific command with parameters]`
- Execute script: `/tools/script-name.[py|sh|ps1|js]` for automation
- Validate command execution success

**Tool Operations** (when required):
- Use internal tool: `tool_name` for [specific purpose]
- Use MCP server tool: `mcp_server_name.tool_name` for [specific operation]

**File Operations** (when required):
- Read/Write file: `.olaf/work/<skill-specific-folder>/subfolder/file-name.md` or specific path when applicable
- Process file content according to requirements

**Core Logic**: Execute following protocol requirements
- Apply appropriate interaction protocol
- Complete core processing steps
- Provide required user confirmations

### 3. Validation Phase
You WILL validate results:
- Confirm all outputs meet requirements
- Verify functionality if applicable

## Output Format
You WILL generate outputs following this structure:
- Primary deliverable: Reference external template if needed: `templates/[template-name].md`
- Supporting files: [location and naming convention]
- Documentation: [specific format requirements]

**IMPORTANT**: If your skill needs templates, reference them as external files. Do NOT embed template content in this prompt.

**OUTPUT LOCATION**: All files generated by this skill MUST be placed in `.olaf/work/<skill-specific-folder>` unless user specifies otherwise.

**USER INTERACTION**: When presenting choices or requesting information from user, ALWAYS use numbered lists to facilitate responses.

## User Communication
You WILL provide these updates to the user:

### Progress Updates
- Confirmation when each major step completes
- Location/reference of any changes made
- Timestamp identifier used: [YYYYMMDD-HHmm format]

### Completion Summary
- Summary of actions taken
- Files created/modified with locations
- Any issues encountered and resolutions

### Next Steps (if part of workflow)
You WILL clearly define:
- Immediate next actions required
- Objectives for next phase (concise, specific)
- Files/resources provided to next phase
- Dependencies for next step

## Domain-Specific Rules
You MUST follow these constraints:
- Rule 1: [Specific constraint with clear enforcement]
- Rule 2: [Order/sequence requirements with rationale]
- Rule 3: [Data validation rules with examples]
- Rule 4: [Security or safety requirements]

## Success Criteria
You WILL consider the task complete when:
- [ ] All required parameters validated
- [ ] Core logic executed successfully
- [ ] Outputs generated in specified format
- [ ] User communication completed
- [ ] Next steps defined (if applicable)

## Required Actions
1. Validate all required input parameters and prerequisites
2. Execute operations following appropriate interaction protocol
3. Generate outputs in specified format
4. Provide user communication and confirmations
5. Define next steps if part of workflow

## Error Handling
You WILL handle these scenarios:
- **Missing Parameters**: Request specific missing items from user
- **File Access Issues**: Provide clear error message and resolution steps
- **Tool Failures**: Offer alternative approaches or manual steps
- **Validation Failures**: Stop process and request user guidance

⚠️ **Critical Requirements**
- MANDATORY: Follow established interaction protocol (Act/Propose-Act/Propose-Confirm-Act)
- NEVER bypass protocol requirements
- ALWAYS validate outputs before considering task complete
- ALWAYS provide rollback instructions for destructive operations
- ALWAYS document assumptions and limitations
- ALWAYS confirm user approval for significant changes
