skills/run-redocumentation/skill.md, before:

---
name: run-redocumentation
description: Enhanced Run Redocumentation skill migrated from project-manager competency
license: Apache-2.0
---

---
name: run-redocumentation
description: Enhanced Run Redocumentation skill migrated from project-manager competency
tags: [project-management, documentation-automation, source-analysis, systematic-workflow, progress-tracking]
  copyright: Copyright (c) 2026 pjmp020564
  author: pjmp020564 (on github)
  repository: https://github.com/haal-ai/haal-ide
  provider: Haal AI
---

if you are in need to get the date and  time, use time tools, fallback to shell command if needed

## Intent

Execute systematic redocumentation of any multi-repository or complex application by following an orchestrator plan, tracking progress, and generating carry-over files at each step. This competency uses **FRESH ASSESSMENT methodology** - focusing on direct source code analysis rather than reading previous analysis documents to ensure maximum value generation.

**🚨 METHODOLOGY UPDATE (20251103):** Competency updated to prioritize direct source analysis over previous document synthesis, ensuring each step brings NEW insights through fresh code examination.

## User Interaction

Execute automated execution with progress tracking.

## Process Flow

### Step 1: Review Current Progress
- **Locate Progress Tracker:** Find the progress tracking file in `.olaf/work/staging/{project-name}/artifacts/` directory
  - Naming pattern: `redocument-{project-name}-progress.md` or similar systematic naming
- **Load Orchestrator Plan:** Identify and load the corresponding orchestrator plan file
  - Naming pattern: `redocument-{project-name}-orchestrator.md` or similar systematic naming
- **Identify Next Step:** Determine the next pending step in the orchestration plan
- **Validate Prerequisites:** Ensure all dependencies for the identified step are met

### Step 1.5: Fresh Assessment - Direct Source Analysis

**🚨 CRITICAL METHODOLOGY REQUIREMENT:** Execute FRESH ASSESSMENT focusing on **direct source code and file analysis** rather than reading previous analysis documents.

**Fresh Assessment Approach:**
1. **Progress Tracking Only:** Review progress tracker ONLY for structural information:
   - Which step to execute next
   - File naming conventions and artifact locations
   - Completion status tracking
2. **Direct Source Focus:** Target analysis directly at actual source code, configuration files, and implementation
3. **Avoid Prior Analysis:** DO NOT read previous step analysis documents as primary input
4. **New Insights Mandate:** Each step MUST generate NEW insights through direct examination

**Rationale for Fresh Assessment:**
- **Prevents Synthesis Loops:** Reading previous analysis leads to rewriting existing content without new value
- **Maximizes Discovery:** Direct code analysis uncovers implementation gaps and technical debt
- **Ensures Competency Effectiveness:** OLAF competencies work best analyzing actual implementations
- **Avoids Echo Chambers:** Document-to-document synthesis reduces analytical value and insight generation

**Implementation Details:**
1. **Step Execution:** Load the target competency and apply it directly to source repositories
2. **Input Sources:** Code files, configuration files, build scripts, API contracts - NOT previous analysis documents
3. **Context Limitation:** Use progress tracker for structure only - file locations, naming patterns, completion status
4. **Value Generation:** Each step must contribute NEW staging through direct implementation examination

**Exception Handling - DFD Analysis:**
- **DFD Competency Exception:** The `dfd/prompts/dfd_main_coordinator.md` competency is **EXEMPT** from fresh assessment protocol
- **DFD Internal Progression:** DFD uses its own multi-phase system (Phase A→B→C→D) that MUST read its own previous phases
- **DFD Execution:** Execute DFD as complete self-contained process, then use DFD results for subsequent steps
- **Step 4.2 Integration:** Use completed DFD artifacts combined with fresh code analysis for enhanced functional specifications

**Validation Requirements:**
- Competency execution focuses on fresh code analysis (except DFD which uses internal progression)
- Generated artifacts contain NEW insights not present in previous documents
- Analysis reveals previously undiscovered implementation patterns, gaps, or technical debt
- Documentation provides actionable information for developers and stakeholders
- DFD analysis completed as integrated multi-phase process when Step 4.1 is reached

### Step 2: Execute Next Step with Fresh Assessment
- **Load Competency:** Load the specific OLAF competency for the identified step
- **Direct Source Analysis:** Apply competency directly to source code, configurations, and actual implementation files
- **Execute with Guidelines:** Follow the competency's defined interaction style
- **Target Focus:** Apply the competency to the target repositories/application (typically in `your-repos/{project-name}/`)
- **Generate New Insights:** Create artifacts containing fresh staging from direct code examination, not synthesis from previous analysis

### Step 3: Update Progress Tracking
- Update the progress file with:
  - Step status (Started → Completed)
  - Start and completion timestamps (YYYYMMDD-HHmm CEDT format)
  - Generated artifacts locations
  - Any issues or notes encountered
- Update overall progress metrics
- Validate quality gate criteria if applicable

### Step 4: Generate Carry-Over File
- Use OLAF competency: `common/prompts/carry-over-session.md`
- Generate carry-over file in `carry-overs/` directory
- Include:
  - Current step completion summary
  - Next step preparation
  - Context for continuation
  - Key artifacts and staging
- Follow OLAF timestamp naming convention: `carry-over-YYYYMMDD-HHmm.txt`

### Step 5: Prepare Next Iteration
- Identify the next step in the orchestration plan
- Validate readiness to proceed or identify blockers
- Provide clear status for user continuation

## Input Requirements
- **Orchestrator Plan:** `.olaf/work/staging/{project-name}/artifacts/redocument-{project-name}-orchestrator.md`
- **Progress Tracker:** `.olaf/work/staging/{project-name}/artifacts/redocument-{project-name}-progress.md` 
- **Target Application:** `your-repos/{project-name}/` (all repositories/source code)
- **Project Context:** Any existing analysis artifacts in `.olaf/work/staging/{project-name}/`

## Output Artifacts
- Updated progress tracking file
- Step-specific documentation artifacts
- Carry-over session file
- Quality gate validation results

## Quality Assurance
- Verify all step prerequisites are met before execution
- Validate artifact generation completeness
- Ensure progress tracking accuracy
- Confirm carry-over file contains sufficient context for session continuation

## Error Handling
- Document any execution issues in progress tracker
- Create detailed error reports for failed steps
- Provide recovery recommendations
- Ensure carry-over file includes error context for troubleshooting

## Success Criteria
- Next step identified and executed successfully
- Progress tracker updated accurately
- Required artifacts generated and stored properly
- Carry-over file created with complete context
- System ready for next iteration or completion

## Usage Notes

### General Usage
- Execute this prompt when ready to advance any systematic redocumentation process
- Ensure OLAF framework is loaded before execution
- Follow the project-specific orchestrator plan sequence strictly
- Maintain traceability through progress tracking
- Use consistent OLAF naming and timestamp conventions

### Project-Specific Setup Required

Before using this competency for a new project, ensure:
1. **Orchestrator Plan Exists:** Create `redocument-{project-name}-orchestrator.md` with systematic steps
2. **Progress Tracker Exists:** Create `redocument-{project-name}-progress.md` with step tracking
3. **Source Code Available:** Target repositories accessible in `your-repos/{project-name}/`
4. **staging Directory:** Create `.olaf/work/staging/{project-name}/` for artifacts

### Example Project Configurations

#### Example 1: Web Application Redocumentation
- **Project Name:** `ecommerce-platform`
- **Orchestrator:** `.olaf/work/staging/ecommerce-platform/artifacts/redocument-ecommerce-platform-orchestrator.md`
- **Progress:** `.olaf/work/staging/ecommerce-platform/artifacts/redocument-ecommerce-platform-progress.md`
- **Source:** `your-repos/ecommerce-platform/`

#### Example 2: Microservices Architecture Documentation
- **Project Name:** `payment-gateway`
- **Orchestrator:** `.olaf/work/staging/payment-gateway/artifacts/redocument-payment-gateway-orchestrator.md`
- **Progress:** `.olaf/work/staging/payment-gateway/artifacts/redocument-payment-gateway-progress.md`
- **Source:** `your-repos/payment-gateway/`

### Reusability Features
- **Dynamic Project Detection:** Automatically detects project name from directory structure
- **Flexible Step Categories:** Adapts to different documentation phases based on orchestrator plan
- **Generic Artifact Naming:** Follows consistent patterns for any project type
- **Universal Context Integration:** Reads any step artifacts regardless of specific content

---

**Competency Type:** Execution Orchestrator  

**Framework:** OLAF Multi-Step Process Management  

**Integration:** Progress Tracking + Artifact Generation + Session Management  

**Reusability:** Generic for any systematic documentation project

Commit message:

feat(skills): add generate-dfd-from-code and generate-spec-from-dfd skills
- Add generate-dfd-from-code skill with comprehensive multi-phase DFD analysis
- Include description.md documenting overview, features, and use cases
- Include tutorial.md with quick start guide and integration examples
- Add four helper files for DFD phases A through D (initial, level1, level2, final)
- Add main skill.md with complete workflow and step definitions
- Add generate-spec-from-dfd skill for specification generation from DFD output
- Include description.md and skill.md files
- Update run-redocumentation skill.md to reference new DFD generation workflow
- These skills enable systematic reverse-engineering and architecture documentation through progressive DFD analysis phases

skills/run-redocumentation/skill.md, after:

---
name: run-redocumentation
description: Enhanced Run Redocumentation skill migrated from project-manager competency
license: Apache-2.0
---

---
name: run-redocumentation
description: Enhanced Run Redocumentation skill migrated from project-manager competency
tags: [project-management, documentation-automation, source-analysis, systematic-workflow, progress-tracking]
  copyright: Copyright (c) 2026 pjmp020564
  author: pjmp020564 (on github)
  repository: https://github.com/haal-ai/haal-ide
  provider: Haal AI
---

if you are in need to get the date and  time, use time tools, fallback to shell command if needed

## Intent

Execute systematic redocumentation of any multi-repository or complex application by following an orchestrator plan, tracking progress, and generating carry-over files at each step. This competency uses **FRESH ASSESSMENT methodology** - focusing on direct source code analysis rather than reading previous analysis documents to ensure maximum value generation.

**🚨 METHODOLOGY UPDATE (20251103):** Competency updated to prioritize direct source analysis over previous document synthesis, ensuring each step brings NEW insights through fresh code examination.

## User Interaction

Execute automated execution with progress tracking.

## Process Flow

### Step 1: Review Current Progress
- **Locate Progress Tracker:** Find the progress tracking file in `.olaf/work/staging/{project-name}/artifacts/` directory
  - Naming pattern: `redocument-{project-name}-progress.md` or similar systematic naming
- **Load Orchestrator Plan:** Identify and load the corresponding orchestrator plan file
  - Naming pattern: `redocument-{project-name}-orchestrator.md` or similar systematic naming
- **Identify Next Step:** Determine the next pending step in the orchestration plan
- **Validate Prerequisites:** Ensure all dependencies for the identified step are met

### Step 1.5: Fresh Assessment - Direct Source Analysis

**🚨 CRITICAL METHODOLOGY REQUIREMENT:** Execute FRESH ASSESSMENT focusing on **direct source code and file analysis** rather than reading previous analysis documents.

**Fresh Assessment Approach:**
1. **Progress Tracking Only:** Review progress tracker ONLY for structural information:
   - Which step to execute next
   - File naming conventions and artifact locations
   - Completion status tracking
2. **Direct Source Focus:** Target analysis directly at actual source code, configuration files, and implementation
3. **Avoid Prior Analysis:** DO NOT read previous step analysis documents as primary input
4. **New Insights Mandate:** Each step MUST generate NEW insights through direct examination

**Rationale for Fresh Assessment:**
- **Prevents Synthesis Loops:** Reading previous analysis leads to rewriting existing content without new value
- **Maximizes Discovery:** Direct code analysis uncovers implementation gaps and technical debt
- **Ensures Competency Effectiveness:** OLAF competencies work best analyzing actual implementations
- **Avoids Echo Chambers:** Document-to-document synthesis reduces analytical value and insight generation

**Implementation Details:**
1. **Step Execution:** Load the target competency and apply it directly to source repositories
2. **Input Sources:** Code files, configuration files, build scripts, API contracts - NOT previous analysis documents
3. **Context Limitation:** Use progress tracker for structure only - file locations, naming patterns, completion status
4. **Value Generation:** Each step must contribute NEW staging through direct implementation examination

**Exception Handling - DFD Analysis:**
- **DFD Skill Exception:** The `skills/generate-dfd-from-code/skill.md` skill is **EXEMPT** from fresh assessment protocol
- **DFD Internal Progression:** DFD uses its own multi-phase system (Phase A→B→C→D) that MUST read its own previous phases
- **DFD Execution:** Execute DFD as complete self-contained process, then use DFD results for subsequent steps
- **Step 4.2 Integration:** Use completed DFD artifacts combined with fresh code analysis for enhanced functional specifications

**Validation Requirements:**
- Competency execution focuses on fresh code analysis (except DFD which uses internal progression)
- Generated artifacts contain NEW insights not present in previous documents
- Analysis reveals previously undiscovered implementation patterns, gaps, or technical debt
- Documentation provides actionable information for developers and stakeholders
- DFD analysis completed as integrated multi-phase process when Step 4.1 is reached

### Step 2: Execute Next Step with Fresh Assessment
- **Load Competency:** Load the specific OLAF competency for the identified step
- **Direct Source Analysis:** Apply competency directly to source code, configurations, and actual implementation files
- **Execute with Guidelines:** Follow the competency's defined interaction style
- **Target Focus:** Apply the competency to the target repositories/application (typically in `your-repos/{project-name}/`)
- **Generate New Insights:** Create artifacts containing fresh staging from direct code examination, not synthesis from previous analysis

### Step 3: Update Progress Tracking
- Update the progress file with:
  - Step status (Started → Completed)
  - Start and completion timestamps (YYYYMMDD-HHmm CEDT format)
  - Generated artifacts locations
  - Any issues or notes encountered
- Update overall progress metrics
- Validate quality gate criteria if applicable

### Step 4: Generate Carry-Over File
- Use OLAF competency: `common/prompts/carry-over-session.md`
- Generate carry-over file in `carry-overs/` directory
- Include:
  - Current step completion summary
  - Next step preparation
  - Context for continuation
  - Key artifacts and staging
- Follow OLAF timestamp naming convention: `carry-over-YYYYMMDD-HHmm.txt`

### Step 5: Prepare Next Iteration
- Identify the next step in the orchestration plan
- Validate readiness to proceed or identify blockers
- Provide clear status for user continuation

## Input Requirements
- **Orchestrator Plan:** `.olaf/work/staging/{project-name}/artifacts/redocument-{project-name}-orchestrator.md`
- **Progress Tracker:** `.olaf/work/staging/{project-name}/artifacts/redocument-{project-name}-progress.md` 
- **Target Application:** `your-repos/{project-name}/` (all repositories/source code)
- **Project Context:** Any existing analysis artifacts in `.olaf/work/staging/{project-name}/`

## Output Artifacts
- Updated progress tracking file
- Step-specific documentation artifacts
- Carry-over session file
- Quality gate validation results

## Quality Assurance
- Verify all step prerequisites are met before execution
- Validate artifact generation completeness
- Ensure progress tracking accuracy
- Confirm carry-over file contains sufficient context for session continuation

## Error Handling
- Document any execution issues in progress tracker
- Create detailed error reports for failed steps
- Provide recovery recommendations
- Ensure carry-over file includes error context for troubleshooting

## Success Criteria
- Next step identified and executed successfully
- Progress tracker updated accurately
- Required artifacts generated and stored properly
- Carry-over file created with complete context
- System ready for next iteration or completion

## Usage Notes

### General Usage
- Execute this prompt when ready to advance any systematic redocumentation process
- Ensure OLAF framework is loaded before execution
- Follow the project-specific orchestrator plan sequence strictly
- Maintain traceability through progress tracking
- Use consistent OLAF naming and timestamp conventions

### Project-Specific Setup Required

Before using this competency for a new project, ensure:
1. **Orchestrator Plan Exists:** Create `redocument-{project-name}-orchestrator.md` with systematic steps
2. **Progress Tracker Exists:** Create `redocument-{project-name}-progress.md` with step tracking
3. **Source Code Available:** Target repositories accessible in `your-repos/{project-name}/`
4. **staging Directory:** Create `.olaf/work/staging/{project-name}/` for artifacts

### Example Project Configurations

#### Example 1: Web Application Redocumentation
- **Project Name:** `ecommerce-platform`
- **Orchestrator:** `.olaf/work/staging/ecommerce-platform/artifacts/redocument-ecommerce-platform-orchestrator.md`
- **Progress:** `.olaf/work/staging/ecommerce-platform/artifacts/redocument-ecommerce-platform-progress.md`
- **Source:** `your-repos/ecommerce-platform/`

#### Example 2: Microservices Architecture Documentation
- **Project Name:** `payment-gateway`
- **Orchestrator:** `.olaf/work/staging/payment-gateway/artifacts/redocument-payment-gateway-orchestrator.md`
- **Progress:** `.olaf/work/staging/payment-gateway/artifacts/redocument-payment-gateway-progress.md`
- **Source:** `your-repos/payment-gateway/`

### Reusability Features
- **Dynamic Project Detection:** Automatically detects project name from directory structure
- **Flexible Step Categories:** Adapts to different documentation phases based on orchestrator plan
- **Generic Artifact Naming:** Follows consistent patterns for any project type
- **Universal Context Integration:** Reads any step artifacts regardless of specific content

---

**Competency Type:** Execution Orchestrator  

**Framework:** OLAF Multi-Step Process Management  

**Integration:** Progress Tracking + Artifact Generation + Session Management  

**Reusability:** Generic for any systematic documentation project
